#General Body Meeting #1
###Bash Scriping

-
[Presentation Link](https://github.com/UMD-Cybersecurity-Club/GeneralBody/blob/master/Spring2016/Presentations/2016-02-11_BashHacking-AutomationandProblemSolving.pptx?raw=true)

- Bash scripting gives users the power of the commandline while allowing the automative capabilities of scripting. 

Say you have a script you want to run, in this example lets say its a simple counter that goes from 0 to some power of 2. I have one written in Python below. Lets call it __prog.py__.  

```python  
#!/usr/bin/env python  

import math  

t = int(raw_input())
x = 2**t  

count = 0
while count < x:
	count = count + 1

print count
```  

Here the program takes in __stdin__ or Standard Input. This means when you run it, you will be prompted to enter something. 

But before you run it, you must make is _executable_ by giving it the correct permission. In bash each file has the permission to either _write_, _read_, or _execute_. To allow a progarm to be executable just do the command:

```bash
$ chmod +x prog.py
```
This will allow the program to have permission to execute on your machine. Now to execute our __prog.py__. 
> Running the program, if you enter say 5, it will print 32 to the terminal.

```bash
$ ./prog.py
5
32
```
Now say you wanted to run this program for a range of numbers from 5 to 25. You could modify this program to do this, also you can do it just as simply in bash scripting. 

-
Here is a simple bash script which can accomplish this. Lets call it __test.sh__.

```bash
#!/bin/bash
for i in $(seq 5 25); do
	./prog.py <<< $i
done
```
> To execute a script you have wrote in bash, you need to make sure you end the name with _.sh_ for _shell_, start your script with this header:
> 
```bash
#!/bin/bash
```
> This lets the computer know that when you want to run this, it needs to interpret it as a bash script. 
> 
> Earlier I started my Python script with a different header so that my computer knows to interpret it as a Python script. 
> 

-
Starting with the overall view of the script, we can see it a simple for-loop. We see that the conditional is made with __for i in $(seq 5 25)__. "__i__" is the iterating variable, but what is __seq__ and the dollar sign for? 

In bash, variable data is accessed using the prefix __$__. Normally a variable initialization would look like this:
>
```bash
number=5
name="testudo"
```
> Make sure when initailizing variables that you do not makes spaces in between the equals signs, the assignment, or the value being assigned. 


> In order to access the variables you just precede the name of the variables with a __$__. 
>
```bash
$number
$name
```

-
Now that we know how variable assignment works, what is __seq 5 25__? __seq__ is a command in bash that takes 2 parameters, a start and end number, and will give you every number in _sequence_ from start to end. Run it on the command line and you will get a _sequence_ from your staring number to ending number. 

```bash
$ seq 1 10
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
```
We can take advantage of this in our for-loop, since with each loop __seq__ will iterate once and update the value of __i__ each time. This is why we have it as __$(seq 5 25)__ so we can just access the stored ouput from __seq__ and assign it to __i__. 

Going back to our script, we end the conditional for the for-loop with a semicolon, and start the code block we want to have done in the loop with __do__, and when we are done we close it with __done__. Easy, right?

```bash
for i in $(seq 5 25); do
	./prog.py <<< $i
done
```
In between our __do__ and __done__ we have the meat of our script. To summarize, we are executing the script while feeding it input with the values from variable __i__. 


Our program _prog.py_ is being executed, and the triple left angle brackets means that we want to direct some input into the program. This is the same as typing a number into the commandline after you executed the python script, only this time the value from __i__ is being fed into the script. 
> Say the __i__ = 5. The two below are fulfilling the same function. The first is the input redirection in the script, and the second is input from you typing into the command line. 
> 
```bash
./prog.py <<< 5
```
>
```bash
$ ./prog.py
5
```

If you ran __test.sh__ you should see this as a result. 

```bash
$ ./test.sh 
32
64
128
256
512
1024
2048
4096
8192
16384
32768
65536
131072
262144
524288
1048576
2097152
4194304
8388608
16777216
33554432
```
You may have noticed the last few to take a little while to get printed. That is just because they are large numbers that need to be counted up to, but I wonder if you could time how long it took the program to count each of those numbers...

This is indeed possible, but I will leave this for you to attempt on your own. I will give you a hint:

```bash
$ time ./test.sh
```
Additionally, in bash every command comes with its own set of __man__ pages, or _manual_ if you will. To see the __man__ pages of any command, just do __man__, followed by the command you want to know about more. Also remember: __Google is your friend.__

```bash
$ man time
```

-
<details><summary>One way to accomplish this...</summary>
	<pre><code>
	#/bin/bash
	TIMEFORMAT=%R
	for i in $(seq 5 25); do
		echo "Time amount: $i"
		time ./prog.py <<< $i;
	done
	</code></pre>
	</details>
	
	